[Music]
today i'm going to take you through a
day in the life
of me i'm going to show you my typical
day of eating
as well as a light training session and
i've also got a few people coming in and
i'm going to take them
through their paces on a strength
technique
session so hopefully you enjoy
before i do anything i make my coffee um
just an espresso
just these pods but they're good enough
they taste good
i have two of these so it's a double
[Music]
lots of cream and lots of honey
i don't know how many calories that is
but it tastes good and i'm going to be
doing that
while i have my oatmeal with my daughter
a bit of a free pour that's probably
about two tablespoons
i've got a sweet tooth
this is my morning meals the first thing
i have is a glass of water
and i put salt in it good for hydration
that's your sodium i also have potassium
supplements as well
and i eat a lot of potassium with my
spinach we have fruit every day have
bananas have kiwi fruit
but it's very important not to just have
water by itself
that's that's the electrolytes is what
hydrates you
so that's the first thing that i have
followed by my coffee which is
double shot coffee with honey and cream
i've probably got a lot of calories in
it but that's okay with me i like my
calories i need my calories
i don't know exactly how many is in
there but i'll have them all
and i have oatmeal so a cup of oatmeal
whatever that is and about 30 grams of
protein powder this is with water and
with honey
um that's it i've been eating this for
as long as i can remember i don't know
years definitely and it's the first meal
of my day it's the easiest one to
consume for me
i'm not hugely hungry as soon as i wake
up but i just need something in my
stomach something easy to eat
and that's this
meal number two this is my healthy meal
actually the first one was healthy as
well i'm gonna have a lot of healthy
meals today
maybe i'll sneak in a few other bits and
pieces that you'll see
but five boiled eggs with blueberries
it's a funny combination but i've been
eating eggs every day
for probably more than 10 years am i
sick of it
yeah i'll be lying if i said no i am a
little bit sick of it but anyway i like
it
i like what it does to me it's good
protein source and i'm still moving
forward
with my strength goals and muscle
building goals so
something's working obviously and i do
think that um eggs
are a good staple for anyone's diet so
five boiled eggs
blueberries to wash it down and apple
juice
because i like the taste of it a bit of
extra calories as well
let's go it's about to go squat it's a
d-log day so it's not very stressful
okay so we are on our way to base gym
in sydney i'm
gonna squat today but it's going to be a
light session
i'm squatting two times a week at the
moment light session heavy session light
session heavy session so today's
kind of a bit of deload high bar squats
um so i'm pretty chilled out
and then i'm going to be training some
of the girls from clean health
um they don't know what they're in for
but
it's a funny thing when people come and
train with me they think that i'm going
to smash them i'm going to
make them puke or do something they're
not able to do or something like that
and everyone gets kind of scared but
um that's that's absolutely not what
happens it's kind of brain gains that's
the biggest muscle that we train
um and you guys are gonna see that so
it's gonna be pretty cool i've never
really filmed any of my sessions with
um i don't want to call them newbies
because they're you know they're
industry professionals
um but like people that are experiencing
a strength session for the first time
with me so it's going to be cool to see
exactly how i approach a new client
even though they're not a client of mine
but will say that
i'm going to treat them as if they were
for the first time
so that's going to be a cool experience
for the girls at clean health and also
for you guys
if you're personal trainers out there
and you're watching to see
how i approach clients it's going to be
a good one
we'll be at the gym in about 15 minutes
[Music]
you ready there let's go
hey welcome the general is here what's
up how's it going i'm good how are you
very very good hey mon how are you we
have fist bumps for everyone
how are you what's your plan today for
today i'm gonna do some light squats
live squats yeah so it's not a stressful
day i'm gonna do some high bar stuff
yeah um that's probably gonna take me
not that long and then i'm gonna
have a meal so then i'm gonna trying the
clean health checks hey guys welcome to
base gym my name is sebastiano
the australian strength coach and this
is our gym
that i own with my wife and her sister
this is felicia
and dinny j and they are the base body
babes
and the name based jim didn't come from
the word bass it more came from
the basebody babes actually and the
reason i'm saying that is because that
was the question was asked
today but yeah it was yeah everyone
thinks that i'm naming jim after myself
but i wasn't actually
um so this is base gym and we all own
this business
together and today i'm going to do a
video which is going to be a day
in the life of me actually we already
started like
quite a few hours ago when he woke me up
this morning
exactly so we had a few of my meals
already um the day
started long ago and it's still going to
go for the rest of the day so today i'm
going to do
a training session for me and it's just
going to be a light
squat session and then i've got some
girls some special guests from clean
health that are coming in
and i'm going to run them through a
typical lower body session probably just
squats and deadlifts
and teach them the techniques the way
that i like to teach them
so you guys are going to get a whole
bunch of value out of that
um and then i'm going to go about the
rest of my day with all of my meals
including my desserts up until bedtime
so
hope you guys enjoy the video welcome to
our world
check this this is my shoes for today
this is my
uh accessory
squash shoes so this is where i want to
develop my quadriceps
i'm strengthening weak points so
whenever i do
a low bar squat i use these these are
flat sole shoes
and i wrap my knees now what a knee wrap
does is it stops the knee from being
able to bend
so it acts as very strong knee joint
extensors
what are the knee joint extensors that's
quadriceps so when i do my
wrapped squats i'm neglecting quadriceps
i do low bar wraps it's like
hip dominant and the wraps act as quads
so i don't use my
quads that much so then i develop a weak
point if all you do is wrap squats
you're going to develop a weak point in
quads
so my favorite exercise well my favorite
accessory or supplementary thing to do
for my
swot strength is any quad dominant
variation
so today my quad dominant variation is
just going to be high bar
so i'm doing a high bar pause phase so
high bar pauses
elevated heels are going to allow me to
get into that bottom position better
and allow me to get my hamstring pressed
against my calves so that's
that's the best tip if you want to build
quads
get full depth so the hamstring is
pressed against the calf
but check this out if i don't have the
elevated heel
for me to get full depth look at my
lower back
can you see it rounding so so i need
heel elevation not everyone needs that
there's some really mobile people out
there that can do
an ass to grass squat and they don't
really need this
uh that's fine but i do and so that's
what i'm doing so this is
helping me achieve that bottom position
and maintain a neutral pelvis angle
so that's important don't go don't go
ask the grass squat because bass said
that builds quads better
and it's going to go and trash your back
if your lower back is rounding under
load
don't do that so butt wink kinda happens
but work towards not ever butt winking
that's what you want
um so that's my focus of today is to get
full depth
beautiful posture uh quadriceps focus
so what's a quad focus squat we've got
hyper we got front squat
and i'm going to add a pause um we also
do one and a quarter stuff so all the
different variations there's not one
number one exercise for it um but right
now i'm also working towards another
goal which is
monday i do 290 pause high bar and then
two weeks later i did 300 paws and then
the week after that i'll do 400.
low bar these are big numbers let me
tell ya
let's get started what are we going to
do before i squat
this is what i recommend for anyone
whenever they're performing anything
that loads the spine is to activate the
core
now i didn't invent this this is a
it's called the big three by professor
stuart mcgill
and actually the person that introduced
me to this is andrew locke that's
one of the best rehabilitation
specialists in the game i worked very
closely with him
and he's taught me this just as a great
warm-up to activate the call
lots of money has gone into research for
this exact movement it's the big three
by stuart mcgill
uh it's core activation exercises um
they say that after completing the big
three
you're probably active for the following
one to three hours after this
which is pretty much how i'm gonna long
i'm going to be squatting for
so i start with core activation then i
do glute activation
and then i'm going to start warming up
my squats that's all let's go
bird dogs i do 10 of these now
here's my disclaimer to you don't do
bird dogs
and think that all of a sudden you're
going to be strong it's just a warm up
it's just a warm-up just to stimulate
stimulate not annihilate
that's the one but also
if you know for me it's not going to
make me stronger like i'm pretty strong
and most people are strong enough for
this to not really be strengthening the
exercise it's an activation exercise
but for people with back pain
instead of sitting at home and doing
nothing and saying you know lifting
weights hurts and i can't exercise i
can't walk
my back hurts these are excellent
exercises that you can do
that are not aggressive enough to be
harmful
and it puts blood and strengthens the
right areas
but for now it's an activation so
there's different purposes for this this
is actually what
andrew lock prescribes for all of his
low back pain
patients his rehabilitation specialist
okay so that's
a ten total so that's five on each side
and next we do a rolling plank
so it starts with a front plank so we do
this for 30 seconds
hands are separate no sagging of the
hips
the cue that i say is with your pelvis
piss up a wall
that's a good one so that's posterior
pelvic rotation
is that 30 seconds yeah just about just
about now we go side plank
and this one is a bit harder than the
front so we do this for 15 seconds
is that where you normally would place
your other hand pass just on your
stomach
yeah to be honest with you some people
do this there's no difference just where
you're comfortable
as long as your spine is straight
some good tips
hey bendy how did my lips look oh nice
and luscious
thick with the triple c
[Music]
okay so there's the planks that's the
rolling plank
next we do curl ups so we go like this
one foot to the butt one leg straight if
i have both legs straight
my pelvis rotates anteriorly if i have
both
feet up to my butt rotates posteriorly
one straight one up to your butt
neutral so we got fingertips on the
abs to feel the brace elbows up to chest
uphold and then
so these are single leg crunches well
these are called curl ups
now i did five with my feet in this
position now i'm going to swap
yep five more
you find this difficult to do best um
[Music]
kinda it's a bit embarrassing to say yes
so that's why i just said kinda but
actually yes
like you feel it man so that's core
that's my call on that's the core
activation so next so i've just seen
i'll probably explain this to you so
that's core activation that's sure
mcgill big three google it
i didn't invent it uh schumacher one of
the best
uh spine researchers in the world if not
apparently he spent half a billion
dollars on research
on on this on the big three it works
trust me
and if you don't think it works trust me
on this it's not going to hurt you
um thor does it so i did that for
one strongest man these are the warm-ups
that i had him do because in world
strongest man events you don't really
get
great facilities to warm up and it's
like perfect because
we've got our body weight to warm up
with so i had thor doing these little
simple things
uh before he went and wins before he
goes to win well strongest man
um yeah it looks funny but he doesn't
okay next
okay so that's core activation core
protects the spine
we're also loading hips so a lot of
people experience in spots
anterior hip pain and they stretch their
hip flexors
we don't do that we don't stretch
anything stretching inhibits muscles
and weakens the muscle if it's performed
like just before
a session you're trying to contract the
muscle not lengthen the muscle
so instead of stretching the hip flexors
the hip flexors are working a lot of
times pain in the front of the hip isn't
because
tight hip flexors because that's not on
so glute activation bottom leg straight
top foot behind the bottom ankle right
clams so i point my pelvis towards the
ground
and i have my hips 25 reps so a lot of
people do clams like exactly side on
you're not using gravity to get the
right muscles glute mean glute meat
so we point our pelvis to the ground
okay so now where gravity is helping us
use that leg as a weight and we're
hitting 25 reps
i'm not counting
another thing that people do with clams
they bring their knees up here so you're
putting your hips in flexion
the glutes hip joint extensors so don't
put them in flexion that shortens it too
much
okay
yeah that's about 25 i'd say
okay that's 25 that's two functions of
the glutes is
abduction so that's abduction and also
external rotation
now another function of the glutes is
uh hip joint extension so we're going to
do 10 on each side
hey check out kevi he's over there he's
about to deadlift
and he's doing the same thing i think
gaby
what are you doing kevin
you just went ahead of your bus yeah
he's cheating man
you can't trust him he arches and he's
bench pressed as well
that's a cheater
yeah yeah bro he even admits it
he did it last night he's like if i
cheat if i arch more
i can bench press more that means it's a
cheat
no okay we're only joking you know what
i'm joking we're advocates of the arch
for a number of reasons safety allows us
to have your weight
most people put their hands on the
inside of the rack but with me
my shoulders are so tight
that i can't so i have to put them on
the outside of the rack which is why
it's quite handy to have a rack like
this now before i touch
an empty bar i'm gonna do a set of 20
squats uh i call these bend overs
right so with a squat it's not just legs
it's your whole body so when i say bend
overs
don't even touch the ground put the
hands on the inside of the leg
hands on the inside of the legs forces
you to push your knees out which is a
cue
that i teach with my squats
and for the for these bend overs are you
trying to keep your spine neutral
no i don't care if it goes into flexion
i'm not loading my spine yep
so i'm warming up my entire posterior
chain
so if i was trying to keep my spine
neutral i'd call them squats
but that's why i call them bend overs
okay so
a bit of leg swings as well legs swings
just mobilize my hip joint nicely
it's what i was talking about before
with
butt wink and keeping a neutral spine
so these are the warm-up drills that
help me achieve full depth without
rounding my lower back
or without going into butt wink
so that i can achieve full depth in the
squat
strengthen my legs which is what i'm
after and not
harm my back
okay high bar high bar barbell sits on
the upper traps
elbows back shoulder blades down ignore
my hands right now because
i'll bring them in every second i'm just
doing the comfort thing
that's hard work that's a hard day for
me
[Applause]
uh
um
so good question that you just asked off
the
camera was we didn't talk about my belts
no we did not
uh the belt is something that i use to
help me
lift a heavier weight it increases my
intra-abdominal pressure
imagine my torso is like a balloon so
think of that balloon
tie a rope around the middle of the
balloon and then feel the pressure on
that balloon it's going to be a little
bit more
firm that's what happens with my body i
want a firm body
well we don't really call it firm we
call it rigid we call it tight
tight equals strong so this is what
happens i brace
with the use of the belt um and it
makes my torso stronger people look at
it as
putting a belt around your lower back to
protect your lower back
yeah it does protect your log back but
not because it's on your lower back
because it's
allowing you to brace harder it's
increasing the intra-abdominal pressure
so the
air build up inside my body um so
another way of
ensuring that i'm building up that
intra-abdominal pressure is
it's called the valsalva maneuver where
you take a big breath
and hold your breath so if i breathe in
on the way down
and breathe out on the way up i'm losing
a lot of that
that pressure so that defeats the
purpose of having a belt so
i've got the belt on i just had a bit of
a complaint uh to myself
that my body is a bit too big when i say
body i mean my guts
and i i went on a tighter setting it was
a little bit too tight so i don't like
it too tight i like it
comfortable tighter isn't always better
195.
every time i touch that bar is an
opportunity for me to practice
what i'm going to do for the top set and
this is the top set for today but it's
also
practicing what i'm going to do on
monday when i do 290.
every time i touch that barbell i'm
thinking about all of the techniques
that i teach everyone
upper back tension foot position looking
straight ahead
brace spread the floor push the knees
out in the same direction as the toes
open the hips that's going to allow me
allow my pelvis to achieve the bottom
position and remain neutral
sometimes if you feed it too close
you're not giving your pelvis
room to sit in that position so
perfect stance
[Music]
how did that feel best it felt first it
felt tiring to be honest with you
my body is exhausted um
you know that's sub-maximal but still
it's hard anyway one more set
[Music]
all right that's me done let's be done
so
common question that i get asked is
uh how often should we be training a
lift uh in fact last night someone asked
me
is it possible to bench press five times
per week i said yes it is and the rule
is this the higher the frequency
uh the lower the intensity and the
lower total volume per session so this
is really low volume this is only two
sets of two
but let's just say you pick a squat
and you normally do 10 sets for you
for your squat padding in a week on one
session
if you do two sessions it doesn't mean
you do 10 sets in the first
and ten sets in the second do five sets
and five sets so it's still kind of
very similar total volume around the
week but
what happens is the quality of the
movement improves a lot because instead
of doing
like if you can imagine if i did 10 sets
of this the last few sets
fatigue would kick in and the quality
wouldn't be as high
so when i keep the volume low in each
session it's very high quality sets
um and then i do it multiple times per
week so right now
um yeah i know it's only two sets and
then when i go on my heavy session it'll
only be
two to three sets as well but that's
because i'm at my really heavy end
but in my when i'm further away from
competition my volume is a lot higher
and i probably would be doing
between you know over five sets per
session if i was to do it two times per
week or if i'm doing it once per week i
might do 10 sessions
at 10 total sets per body part
so this is what's working for me really
well at the moment i don't usually do
two times a week squats
i usually do just one heavy squat
session and one heavy daily session but
what i've done this time
taken my deadlift session out and put in
a second squat session
but a very light uh light and low volume
squat session which is what today was
and my squats going up really really
well
so i just squatted 350 for a double my
goal is 400
and i believe i'm pretty close to that
400 kilogram squat 881 pounds
for those who speak american but that's
what's working for me
very well now so don't take that
information and say
uh two sessions is better than one or
you know bas said that this is the total
amount of sets you have to do
it's always changing but currently this
is working for me really nicely
um and then when i revisit this for my
next goal so my first goal is 400
my next goal after that might be 410 or
whatever it is i might have to
use a completely different strategy it's
always changing
but those are some of the basic rules if
you want to do it more times per week
you got to something's got to give you
can't just do more of everything
more times per week and more volume and
more weight so if you're doing one
session per week you can really hit it
if you're doing two sessions per week
you need to back it off a little bit and
that's me that's my session done
time to eat and then we're going to
train the girls from pinhole
meal number three meal number three for
the day that's uh
post-workout nutrition that's my protein
shake
um this is bondi meal prep
it's really great quality food this is
steak
broccoli jalapenos and and uh
i think that's tomato it's my capsicum
i think it's capsicum actually and rice
so perfect for me
perfect amount of protein and
carbohydrates and it's healthy food
and something i love about it is the
convenience so that's why i have these
meal preps
i have two to three of these per day
so it's a pain in the butt having to
cook that many meals which is why
just getting the meal prep having
someone else do that for me
is just so convenient you also got some
cranberry juice here
yeah cranberry juice to be completely
fair
the cranberry juice that i should be
having is the freshly squeezed stuff
yeah this is like a bit more processed
a little bit when i say a little bit
more sugar kind of a lot more sugar
but hey tastes good
and i don't mind having a little bit of
extra calories at the moment i
need to keep my weight high you know the
the food that i'm having is is uh high
quality man
feel three almost done i'm just gonna
finish these last
bits some pieces of rice and then we're
gonna go train the girls yeah exciting
okay so the very first thing that we're
gonna do is it's called
the big three by stuart mcgill so we
start with do you know what bird dogs
are
so we're gonna do bird dogs we're gonna
do ten of those
straight after that we do a rolling
plank so front plank for 30 seconds
side plank for 15 seconds on each side
and then we do
curl ups so it's just crunches 10 reps
of that that's the entire core
activation
right so that's going to take about 5
minutes all right come on we're ready
let's do it if you're doing something
wrong i'll pick it up
and i'll say it but otherwise if i keep
my mouth shut you're doing everything
right you just keep on
doing you
just five reps that's all i want
okay good more now not so bad
there's a few little changes
the first place that we start is grip
the rules that we have is to hold the
bar
as close as your shoulder mobility
allows where you're resting the bar on
your back is a little bit
loose so when you bring it in a little
bit closer
the thing that's going to happen is
you're going to pretty much squeeze your
shoulder blades
back and down towards your back pockets
automatically automatically
but then i want you to think about that
as well so when the hands are in close
it kind of
makes it flow a little bit better but
that's what i want you to think about so
tension from so hands as close to
shoulder mobility allows
and then when you come under the bar
don't just rest it there elbows back
shoulder blades down
so now we've got upper back tension yeah
okay the next thing that you were doing
was how you were doing these squats here
while saying knees out
spread the floor so what i want you to
do now before we put that weight on your
back
is do it unloaded i want you to get to
the bottom position of the squat
and get the elbows on the inside of your
knees and open the hips
now feet are too wide for that theater
too wide for that
so it's not about bringing the feet
wider the feet can stay where they work
it's about opening the heat pushing the
knees out
see how the knees just come in shove
them out
now stay there did you see what so what
i did was put my knees elbows on the
inside of the knees
i'll show you what i did i got here and
i sat and i opened up and stayed here
stay here and shove the knees out
elbows in shove them out shove them out
harder
that's better that's better okay okay
that's the knees out position
okay now what's happening is when you're
not doing that you're not giving your
pelvis room to sit in that bottom
position
okay so you're feeling here but the
knees are coming forward and the bum is
coming back it's kind of like a
two-dimensional squat
it's called a three-dimensional this way
as well think about it this way
yeah okay okay so i want you to do this
now
when you drop don't drop putting your
bum back or pushing your knees forward
push the knees this way
this is the first no no the first thing
that happened just then is your knees
just
forward forward i don't want to afford
it anymore i'm going to be very strict
with you
shove them out if i see him do this i'll
stop you straight away okay this way
there's more so so this is where we
start
this bone here is called your femur we
externally rotate it
so i don't need to see that pointing in
this direction from the get-go
turn turn turn outwards outwards good
now push the knees out look straight
look straight push the knees out open
the knees open the knees come down more
open the knees come down more more shove
them out shove them out shove them out
shove them out shove them out shove them
out that's better shove them out
they're going in the right direction
good girl there you go
look at them opening up and stand that's
what i want
your hips are opening now for the first
time okay
now do that without me touching you
shove them out stop
you're going back to this don't do that
and don't and don't do this either
here shove it out shove it out
good and more go and lower yourself good
shove them out shove them out good good
lower yourself shove them out shove them
out shove them out good girl
okay stop okay ten times better we're
not there
but it's ten times better i want you to
stand a little bit wider now
just a little bit wider look up do it
again
shove them out shove them out shove them
out shove them out shove them good
good there's open hips i can see it
already completely different movement
now
now you're using your butt good girl
shove them out harder
okay now
you're gonna think of that and do this
again with the bar i'm not gonna add
weight until you're allowed
not allowed yet okay so what are we
doing first what are we doing first
i'm also potentially going to change
your swap position again
like we do one step at a time i change
one thing and then we re-test
the way that you're moving is very hip
dominant it's almost as if you lack
ankle joints dorsiflexion so you you
don't have huge mobility in the ankles
neither do it's not a bad thing
which means yeah which means you might
not be suitable for a high bar squat you
need more
ankle joint doesn't collection for that
so to do to be suitable we won't need to
change your footwear
or add a heel elevation right not a bad
thing i need heel elevation
okay otherwise another alternative is to
use a low bar squat
before we do that grab the bar as close
to shock mobility that so it goes your
sides let's stay up to that one
bring your hand in to that one look up
that's how
good now put on your upper traps now
elbows back
and shoulder weight down towards your
back pockets good now we've got all
those muscles if your upper back
are switched on good girl these were
soft before now they're good
okay good now
look straight ahead get those knees out
out
out out out keep going keep going this
is good shove them out shove them out
shove them out shove them up shove them
out
keep it slow keep shoving them out more
more more more i know they can go up
more
good girl come up good just give me one
give me one more shove those knees down
harder chop them out shove them out
shout out come down a little bit faster
a little bit faster shove them out shove
them out much better
and up good go and wrap it please good
so that was way better than what you
were doing before
right but now it's just confirmed i do
want you in a low bar position
okay so your high bar currently which is
on your upper traps
so low bar is going to be about this
much lower and it's going to be resting
on your rear deltoids okay i'm going to
help you put it in the exact position
right
grab the bars close the shoulder
mobility that's come underneath the bar
good good good elbows back shoulder
blades down that's the perfect position
so this is your shelf here which is your
rear delt
perfect good now this one doesn't matter
if you're
folding in half like you were before
don't stab too many steps back
okay point your toes out just a little
bit good go
now look straight he's down he's down
he's down he's up
get that bottom position keep going keep
going keep going keep going keep going
keep going
keep going harder harder and up
and give me two more way better yeah it
looks a lot better there's still a lot
more things that we're going to change
but go keep going shut up man shove them
out shut that shut them out shove them
out
shove them out shove them out shove them
out and up good go
and again shove them out shove them out
shove them out shove them out
knees out knees out knees out knees out
nice and up
good go and walk it in okay i'm going to
get the focus off of you for a little
bit
and we're going to come back to that and
i'm going to elevate your heels
okay so we're just figuring out the
squat variation that's perfect for you
awesome okay so this is
this is really good one i quite like
this okay there's a few things that i
okay so what is that a high bar squat or
a low bar squat
kind of like just a mix of both okay it
does i
would classify that as the mid but i
want you to think about what we're
actually trying to do
here right so for a high bar the focus
is to be really really upright make it a
more
quadricep dominant type of movement for
a low bar it's more of a hip dominant
movement
now it's more acceptable to look down on
a low bar squat because there is more
forward torso lean
but i used to say it's more acceptable
but still i my queues look straight
straight it's every bar looks straight
right every bar looks straight i used to
say it's more acceptable for a low bar
because
the you know neutral spine the head
follows the torso
i don't want that to happen because the
rules change as you get stronger
what's your squat my best yeah 85
i'm not going to teach you like you're
an 85 kilo sweater i'm going to teach
you like
what i know you can swap which is double
that
i've seen it before i've seen it before
and we've got girls in here that can do
double that
okay like annie for example you know the
smart girl over there she's strong
that's how i'm going to treat you that's
how i'm going to teach you before she
was strong she was not
before she was strong she was not strong
and she taught herself how to be strong
what happens is you get to a point where
the rules change as you get stronger
so i'm not going to change those on you
as you get stronger i'm going to treat
you now like you're that strong
and you're going to follow those rules
from now so you look down the body
follows the eyes
do you get it so if you fail that's
where you're going to fail okay
all right we're not going to do that
face up here
okay posture from the start now
that was a very hip dominant squat
there's nothing wrong with that i'd say
that you have the mobility for either
but it still was more simple to a low
bar
position so i'm going to make you go low
bar now look straight
look straight slow good go
look straight slow good three more look
straight
really yes two more one more
good there you are elbows back shoulder
blades down good go
heels up good that's all that's all
bring the feet in a little bit when we
elevate heels we don't go as wide with
the stance
okay now face up i need those knees out
out out out shove them out shut them up
shut them up more than that more than
that more than that more than that more
than that more than that
good girl and up nice keep that face up
keep that face up
big breath hold your breath knees and
knees and knees out
knees and knees young knees out and up
good i want eight reps
two down six to go three
nice okay i want you to stand a little
bit wider bring your stance out just to
touch
four nice keep that face up
five really good is that any zombies out
nice six you're using your butt a lot
better now
two more is that knees out seven good go
one more
really good great walk it in that's your
squat
so for a while i'll tell you what
happens now your your mobility will
increase because now you're using the
right muscles you're maintaining neutral
spine
you're hitting that bottom position yeah
so you're working muscles you weren't
working before i feel like i can
get down a lot lower that's right that's
great there is forward torso lane
watch this that's for torso lane by
rounding your back
and then that's forward torso by hinging
at your hips that's what you're doing
that's fine
that's fine everyone's going to be
different you're going to be more you're
more upright
you're more full torso as long as you're
not rounding
okay now we get rid of those and we're
gonna add a little bit of weight for you
next because it's too high
okay okay bring your feet out just a
little bit
okay perfect perfect perfect good look
straight keep your face
parallel to that wall in front of you
good girl big breath hold your breath
knees out
slow good control and hit
control pop good two big breath
control hit three bit slower slow then
accelerate
good two more big breath slow then
yeah one more big breath slow then
accelerate
great okay
i want consistency
okay so just saying we've got six reps
and they all look different
uh the line was great the body position
is great the speed of the bar was
different on each one
here so this is where we clarify now
and then the next step you're going to
get it you're going to nail it the
perfect squat
starts slow gradually accelerates in and
out of the hole
that's the perfect squat now if
something's wrong we just slow it down
that's rule number one if you're losing
tension we just slow it down
i don't want any free fall at all not at
any point not while we're learning
later on if we decide to do a different
sport or whatever you want
okay but we learn slow and that's how it
goes control a little bit faster at the
bottom but always
tight if you go too fast you lose
tension
okay so so that's what i want the speed
to be control gradually accelerate and
and the speed up will be
faster than the speed down control hit
control
hit okay we're going to go up a little
bit away
elbows back shoulder blades down perfect
here we go
spread them a little bit wider okay good
girl
big breath hold your breath knees knees
out control
and then gradually accelerate and up
good weight face up
look straight ahead and up two nice big
breath
control knees out knees out and up three
great squat two more big breath
control knees out knees out four great
squat one more big breath
control knees out knees out and squeeze
it up great
the fifth one was better than the first
well done
well done straight quick breath
control control
squeeze you drop too hard then big
breath control
guide it down guide it down now speed up
two nice shove those knees down hard big
breath
good go yeah two more
easy one more
elbows back good there big breath
three reps look straight control big
breath
control squeeze yes big breath
control and squeeze the drop in there
big breath control all the way down
control
and squeeze yeah he says
lower good but his back shoulders down
perfect
good
it's better a bit wider a bit wider a
bit wider
okay good go okay look straight ahead
big breath hold the breath
knees out knees out knees out squeeze it
up great
big breath knees down knees out knees
out nice work
two more big breath knees out knees out
three easy peasy one more big breath
knees down knees out and squeeze good
girl well done
well done super easy
yeah right
i mean it's uncomfortable but it will
protect you from getting injured
thumb fists
go perfect elbows back shoulders down
nice
spreader wider good go look straight
take a big breath hold your breath
control down knees down he's out he's
out
he's down he's out bit two fights big
brother hold your breath
knees up knees and he's out he's out
he's out two give me one more
shove the knees out harder look straight
knees out harder knees out harder
okay good not bad it was a little bit
like it looked harder than it should
have been
obviously we did go heavier but it's
like sometimes when you go um the next
weight up sometimes just to pick a jump
and your knees have come back in again
yeah so you go back to old habits
right so i'm not going to let you out
wait we're going to do that again and
we're going to do it better on the next
set
and i know that you can do it better if
you shove your knees out harder so
you've closed everything off and you've
gone back to where you know
i need you to open the hips make it that
three-dimensional squat that i want
big breath hold your breath control
knees out hard knees out high knees
hard squeeze it up good girl straight
look straight big breath
knees out hard knees out hard knees out
hard a little bit shallow there
and don't rush it big breath hold your
breath shut the knees up shut the knees
down shut the knees up
and squeeze it up good girl nice work
great work great work
okay good
great okay look straight ahead take a
big breath knees out knees out knees out
good get back there big breath hold your
breath shut them out shove now shut down
nice one more big breath off your breath
let's go shove that shoulder down
and up yeah yes great
now the thing you think about as well
you could have done before
and i bet you'd have done five as well
but it's not about that
yeah you you work to fail on a movement
like that
technique's going to break down yeah and
it's called ineffective training
that's when you risk injury yeah you
know what i mean so don't think about
the weight
don't think about working your ass off
and coming in here for a pump session or
a sweat session or training to your puke
yeah people that train that way aren't
strong
no i don't like training that way you
don't get a result like that you walk
out sweaty and you think you had a great
session that's not what training is
about
yeah okay so so now you understand
how to move now you get the program and
we think about
the correct load for what you're going
to be working with right so we did 50
kilograms like
you could essentially go on the next few
weeks and go 52 and a half kilograms
next week
55 kilograms the week after an entity
load
and i'd say that in two weeks time or
two squat you could do this two sessions
a week of squats
and in two weeks two sessions three
sessions time when you do the 55
kilograms
it'll look the same as what 50 looked at
today yeah and then and then you deload
and then change the program yeah because
i've got a good foundation and the
technique has been
it's only going to get better it's been
corrected but it's still
like i come into the gym and i've been
doing it for 20 years and i still video
myself
yeah from every angle and i and i pick
up
after 20 and i've got a pretty good
squad and i
[__] up every time every every like i
record my warm-up sets
up to the top right and it's like the
knees weren't out enough you know
my eyes dropped you know something like
my back wasn't tight there's something
wrong on every single session that i do
and
people can't see it but i can see it but
you improve by the millimeter
yeah but i guarantee you the next
session you'll do this
your subconscious is going to go to work
now and then
you're going to know how to do this
better on the next session you just have
to have that next session kind of soon
yeah you know if you just
yes take it home easy nice tight tight
tight squeeze
yes all day all day
guys hey don't worry about that don't
worry about that
what's your reps easy you got 100.
you're way stronger than you think you
are right
that's did you say 100 for three it has
to be has to be
100 for three come on she got our tunes
on now
[Music]
well it's done that's what made it
harder
that pushes you forward that's big
and this is what if you study strength
systems you're going to be able to
achieve with your clients exhibit a in
one session
one thing 85
mm-hmm
okay that's really good now the knees
out thing
so what it needs to look like is that
the knees are aligning with the feet so
what you're doing is you have your feet
and your knees are kind of knocked in
slightly okay so what i need you to do
is a combination of bringing the feet in
half
[__] centimeter like not much like
you're it's so minimal i'm really
nitpicking
and focus on pushing the knees out
against the inside of your arms right
so bring your feet in it's closer be
close good going grab the
bar so you're yeah good yes perfect
now you're still kind of cramming
yourself in brad grab the bar a touch
wider
no that's that's the [__] way
okay so like i said okay you're on the
line
i want you a centimeter away from the
line so you're you're like inches away
now yeah
okay good now shut the knees out now the
next thing i want you to do
is there's a lot of great leg drive i
think you can pull the bar back and not
not
squat as much that's too much hits now
so
everything you do if i change it just
think of like half a centimeter at a
time good
now armpits towards your pelvis pull the
bar into your body hold your breath head
to the ceiling
push it all the way really nice good
reach your head to the ceiling push it
all the way yeah everything's aligned
knees
head to the ceiling yes one more
ceiling beautiful what a dead lift
really
nice really efficient movement excellent
good goal
now the first thing stop uh actually
let's just record this as a before and
after
three reps
reset the bottom
we go okay that's pretty good and rise
okay good so the next thing i want you
to do it's
still a little bit far away from your
body same thing as mine the hands are
kind of like in the way of the knees
the hips are opening up okay so be
mindful about the
feet must be on the inside of the arms
right now the arms can't get in the way
of the hips opening up
now let's think of something do you know
what the most efficient position for the
arms
would be come on
anyone straight down think of it if you
go
too wide you're shortening your arms
like it's like a snatch bit it means you
have to travel further
so so so therefore the most efficient
position is exactly straight down that's
where your arms are the longest so then
you travel the least
now for someone like you that's actually
two that's a bit too close so for
someone like you think about your
shoulder width
maybe one index finger on the smooth
part
don't go out the hand but do both hands
over just hold them about that is where
your arms would be very much straight
down now here's something here's another
consideration you need to take
females are lower body dominant compared
to a male
broad shoulders narrow hips women are
the opposite narrower shoulders and
widening like
like don't exaggerate what i'm saying
it's very slight but that makes a
difference you know what i mean
so you need to think about that if you
bring your arms straight down
narrow shoulders wide hips you're
cramming your hips up you're not giving
your knees
your hips room to leg drive so although
yes exactly it's easier for a dude to
bring their arms straight down because
the legs fall on the inside
and the legs fall off the hips the hips
are narrow and they fall on the inside
of the arms but for a girl
although the most efficient position is
where the arms are straight down the
hips must
take priority okay okay so you need to
give your
hips room to move so i want you to
consider the arm straight down
no no always overhand either overhand or
one under one over
so keep it over here now i want you to
go wider with your hands
wider with your hands go a bit more a
bit more
good now now the next thing i want you
to do bump down
good now armpits to the pelvis so you so
the shins should be on the bar at this
point
push your knees out against the inside
of the left elbows now the arms are bent
lengthen like extend your tricep good
extend your tricep good
now reach the crown of your head to the
ceiling
okay now do that again bump down
good knees out good girl so it's more
leg drive now got it again
bump down knees out knees out knees
don't look down when you're doing that
relax sorry information that's okay i
know it is
so when i'm giving him information like
that i should have told you that rule
don't don't move while i'm
telling you oh sorry yeah because it's
like it's that's where it is information
if you're trying to deadlift why i'm
telling you you can't do the cues on the
fly
right so get in the position so i'll get
you in the perfect position
and then all you've got to do is push
right so don't push it don't lift that
body until i say so
bump down bump down so bend your knees
bend your knees bend your knees bend
your knees
now now arms long reach the crown of the
head to the ceiling pushing these
outwards
more more more more hold your breath
push the
weld away good job and again it's too
slow on the way up
stand stand with intent bump down knees
out head to ceiling
push the world away yes good girl good
girl
very focused on that good girl
perfect okay and again and again and
again bump down knees out head to
ceiling
okay lock those elbows don't let the
elbows bend at all
good thumb down knees out armpits the
pelvis pull the bar in
good dead lifting great work and relax
it's just gently that's that's giving us
a
proprioceptive feedback that we are
opening the hips yeah and keeping them
open keeping them open the moment that
comes in wrong
that's when you get death wobbles yeah
that's when things start shaking
because all of the right muscles aren't
working together yeah it all felt like
really stable yeah so this is
so you know i don't need to tell you to
use your back you've got no choice but
to use your back
but i do need to teach you how to
optimize the leg drive
so that's why we need to bend the knees
enough push out enough and and push you
all the way instead of saying
pull the bar up push the wall away so it
teaches you to push
your body already knows that it has to
pull yeah yeah
but it doesn't think it has to push yeah
that's why that's why it's just
queuing grab the bar with a centimeter
on them
away from the line
good bump down bump down knees out
armpits the pelvis pull the bar in head
ceiling push the world away
good two more two more
knees out head to ceiling yes one more
knees out i'm down good job and relax
good nice nice now it's just about
kind of like ingraining that feels way
more efficient
all right what's going on the outside
good
thumb down knees out pull the shins back
head to ceiling head to ceiling push all
the way
deficiency arm hits the pelvis head to
ceiling good go
to pelvis that's the ceiling that'll do
it well done well done
leave it there you need a little bit of
room
to push it slightly so about a
centimeter out from that line good
good good knees out pull the bar into
your body should be on the shins good
girl
nice don't let it stop and hesitate in
the middle of the rep
stand within ten good go one more one
shins on the bar you go nice work
nice yes
let's go
so the feedback from one was this we've
shifted her bar position because she was
quite hip dominant with her movements
and she was using a high bar position so
we've changed it to a low bar
and she was doing triples on 85 and
today was a little bit of a different
approach i just needed to teach her
how strong she actually was and she did
triples on 100 so that was a pb
by 15 kilograms like that's a huge
progression
but i wouldn't sit there and say great
we've got you on 100 so next week you're
going to
beat hundreds so now we've got to think
about how we're going to take
your hundreds a little bit higher we
don't have to do that every week you
don't just keep on
driving into the wall until it moves
you've got to go around the wall so i
would get you to go
you said you're doing triples on 85
before this and i've shown you that
you're stronger than that so i'd
take you to fives on 85 and then the
next week
fives on 90. then the next week five to
95 then the next week five's on a
hundred
so there's your progression on your
squat
okay so we're going to take her in four
weeks time that's what we're gonna see
from clean health posting on the clean
health main page tagging at australian
strength coach
okay we're gonna have well you've got a
four week goal
you've got a six week goal you're going
to be doing um a
55 kilogram swap for five in six weeks
you're going to be doing 100 kilograms
for five
in four weeks so um the first thing i
would say to someone like you just after
a technique session like that you did
you did triples on on 50 kilograms and
i'd say
that there was a fourth rep in there and
maybe even a fifth rep so i know that
was more in the tank
and that's a good thing because i know
that next week you can go up
so how much do i want you to go up just
a little bit so next week instead of
50 kilograms you're gonna go 52.5
kilograms the week after you go 55
kilograms
like this is just off the top of my head
a really simple progression how in three
weeks time you can go by five kilograms
and then how do you progress from there
instead of just going up and up and up
each weight so instead of doing that
let's add reps now because we want to
start accumulating a little bit of
volume so let's start that cycle again
but instead of doing triples we do fives
so we're going 50
for week one for trickles then 52 and a
half and 55. then the next phase we do
five for the same weight
so we go 50 for fives 52 and a half for
fives and then 55 for five so we've
taken you from
threes in six weeks time you're gonna do
55 for five
yeah does that make sense of course i'm
gonna write it out for you so you do
remember
i will write it out but that's just a
simple way of progressing by this much
every week
and you don't even feel it and i bet you
in six weeks time when you do 55 for
five
it's going to look easier than when you
did the 50 for three hit
and then same with the deadlifts so just
then we did 5x3
on 60 kilograms that was easier i'd even
tell you to go
up to 65 5x3 the next week and then to
70.
so that was a lot easier so the the
rpe on that was about seven rp on your
squads was about an eight
yeah you know what i mean so that means
we're just going to go a smaller
increment for the squats
but we can go bigger increase so next
week so you did 60. so what did i just
say so
60 for 5x3 what are you going to do next
week 65. yeah and then the next week
70. 67.5 okay cool cool cool
got it right now if we take the same
progression as you did for the squats
what are you gonna do the week after
three by four no five by five five by
fives on what
the first week no no we start we start
the weights again and we just repeat
this
okay 60. 65
the next week so week one is this we
just did week one which is
five by three on sixty what's week two
five by three on 65. good what's week
three five by three on seventy good
what's week four
d load cool excellent d load what's the
next week
five by five on sixty good so we're
gonna start that weight again
but we're gonna add revs and then the
next week
good and then the next week and then
that's sick yeah how strong are you
going to be
pretty strong yeah so that's a great
progression and on a very
it's a very simple progression but
that's a two-month progression i mean
we progress for every single phase like
every month year after year and the goal
is
obviously to not just train for two more
months uh you know
the guys heard a train for 20 more years
or 30 more years or whatever it is but
that's just a very simple way of
progressively overloading with a very i
don't want to say a simple exercise
because there's it's not really simple
but it is
just the deadlift and just the back
squat
but they're the foundational movements
that are going to give you the best
results
and if you continually gradually
progress with those movements you're
going to get a great result
over time
okay so just finished training the girls
from clean health and i'm
due for meal number four so same again
this is a bond meal prep
and this time i'm using a chicken dish
so this was actually a special request
that i had based on
i think it's called hananese chicken
this is basically steamed
chicken breast with a bit of cucumber
and rice
and chili sauce
and what's this like shallots garlic and
shallots or
i don't know if there's garlic but it's
delicious
it doesn't look good when it's all out
on the plate like that after it's been
in the package but trust me
trust me when i say yum yum yum yum
so in terms of how many calories i'm
eating per day
uh my macros split that's numbers that i
can't give you because i don't really
know
um my number one focus currently
is to achieve a certain body weight now
my body weight currently
i weighed in today at 117. i was at
178.6
that was after a couple of meals but my
goal is to sit around
you know 115 116 kilograms because
that's the weight that i need to be out
for my competition
so i know how much i need to eat so it's
roughly five to six meals per day
and i always eat at this same portion
with
half of the meal has to be protein based
so it's usually
uh as you've seen today i'd say the beef
chicken eggs
uh my first meal was protein powder
which i consider to be food rather than
a supplement
but the total amount of calories i think
denny's counted them
that's the only time i've ever actually
done it yeah it was between it was about
five and a half thousand
i'm not eating that much now um i'm
eating a little bit less than that
that's when i was having two liters of
apple juice a day
i feel like you're not far off with all
the tim tams no i'm not
that's that's right the tim tams would
be a thousand calorie dish it's tin tons
of milk
that'd be a thousand calories here yeah
so that's
um yeah and then you could you could
easily say that i'm eating four and a
half thousand during the day with my
other five meals yeah
so it's it's anywhere between five to
five and a half thousand calories
now once again this is like this this is
pretty healthy meals it's like chicken
breasts with
white rice there's not much to it uh and
my other dishes
you've seen it boiled eggs fruit like
it's it's good food it's high quality
food
but then it's stuff like my juices so
this is my second glass of that
um she loves the calories she loves all
those digits
i don't really care but this is the
second glass of this i've had a glass of
apple juice
so that's three glasses of juice for the
day do you drink that 1.5 liter a day
no no no no no i've only had two cups of
this
so so this was this was in the fridge so
he'll have another one with his dinner
then i'll have another juice with my
dinner so that'll be four glasses of
juice
so this is 250 so that's probably about
a liter of juice i'm having for the day
yeah a liter of juice do you mats
there's a hundred grams of carbs in
there
in one in your 250 yeah right
yeah no no how many calories am i in a
liter of that
so this is this is 1.5 liters i'm having
a liter of juice today
and then i'm going to have so
so if i wanted to get the ripped abs for
the ladies
or the men she's giving me a funny look
i'll show the face
no i don't do this for the ladies lady
401 about that 400
the woman the woman
if i want to do this to get my abs back
because she's going to break up with me
if i don't have abs because she's
superficial i don't like dabs
you do look good with abs but i like you
she told me
if i don't look good she's gonna break
up with me
now she didn't say that but you know
it's all about the health as well um
to be honest with you i'm not very
comfortable with this body weight
i breathe extra loud i walk extra funny
which you've probably seen today
that's not actually but i'm extra strong
um which is which is one of my goals i
love having performance goals as well
and sometimes
um you know things have to take a back
seat and at the moment my
my body composition's taking a back seat
but yeah hit my 400 kilo squat
laughing at me hit my 400 kilogram squat
um and then i'm coming back to
aesthetic life yes
look i'll never go for the aesthetic
life like that like come in and
um you know train for the abs it's not
like that i train for performance still
but i just
will be training for performance at a
lower body weight
anyway back to the calories and the
macros so what am i going to do to
achieve that lower body weight all i
need to do
is stop having a liter of juice a day
and tim tams
like because there will be fruit every
night we have a big plate of
fruit after his dessert so you'll drop
that
you'll drop from your drops of dessert
and just have your chocolate i'll have
the fruit
yeah fruits yum like she makes a big
bowl of fruit with kiwi fruits with
berries all the stone fruits just
whatever
whatever's seasonal yeah we'll that soon
meal number five is uh
this is a very standard dish that we eat
uh felicia who's holding the recorder
say hello uh
uh made this for me she makes lots of
this this is inspired by half thor
which is like a monster mash from um
stan efforting's vertical meals
so it's beef mince rice chicken stock
um tomato carrot and there's some
parsley on here as well
always like you know a new vegetable or
two tonight the new
vegetables parsley i got meal number six
it's not like a protein meal or a salad
meal or anything like that
this is calories purely calories i've
got some scones and i've got some cream
and and jam now the next discussion
is what goes on first in this instance
the jam goes on first because of the
consistency
of the crane here all right jam goes on
first and then and then we dollop this
one up
all right and i've got that and i've got
a few more of those
and then i'm going to have a glass of
milk as well and that's
and that's me for the day one more meal
this is something that's definitely a
daily routine and that is daily fruit
the scones isn't daily that was kind of
like i do have something
like desserty but anyway i do have fruit
every day as well kiwis stone fruits
strawberries
apples and that's gonna be all
and then i'm gonna brush my teeth and go
to sleep but you don't need to see that
you